Rewrite the Beamer section (#49)
oetiker/lshort: src/spec.tex

\begin{frame}
  Small is beautiful.
\end{frame}
\end{document}
\end{example}
The full syntax of the \ei{frame} is actually
\begin{lscommand}
  \ei*{frame}[options: o, title: m, subtitle: m]
\end{lscommand}
Where \carg{options} is a key value list of options applied to the frame while
\carg{title} and \carg{subtitle} are displayed at the top of the slide. Despite
the curly braces these are actually optional arguments and has been
omitted in the previous example.
\begin{example}
\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame}{%
  Interesting title}{%
  Even more interesting
  subtitle}
  
  Not so interesting contents.
\end{frame}
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}
The title and subtitle may be also specified using \csi{frametitle} and
\csi{framesubtitle} commands.

Similarly to an article you can specify title, author and date of presentation
using the \csi{title}, \csi{author} and \csi{date} commands. The
\csi{maketitle} may then be used to create a title frame.
\begin{example}
\author{Jane Doe}
\title{Interesting Title}
\date{\today}
% ...

\begin{document} %!hide
\maketitle
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}
Additionally \csi{subtitle}, \csi{institute} and \csi{titlegraphic} are

> available for a richer title frame. The \csi{date} is often repurposed to hold

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available to add extra information to the title frame. The \csi{date} is often repurposed to hold
```

the conference name, since it is more informative than the exact date. Some

> themes (discussed later) display these fields in each slide. If you find that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
themes (discussed later) display these fields on each slide. If you find that
```

> they are too long for such use, you may specify shorter versions via optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they are too long for such use, you may specify shorter versions via the optional
```

argument like this:
\begin{minted}{latex}
  \title[Short Title]{A Title That Is Too Long}
\end{minted}

> The sectioning commands, such as \csi{section}, are meant to be used between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sectioning commands, such as \csi{section}, are meant to be used between
```

> frames and define a structure of presentation. Using them has no visible impact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
frames and define the structure of the presentation. Using them has no visible impact
```

> on the frames themselves, but it will create nice \csi{tableofcontents}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the frames themselves, but they allow for a  nice \csi{tableofcontents}
```

> output that will be properly hyperlinked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with properly hyperlinked entries.
```

\begin{example}
\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame}{Outline}
  \tableofcontents
\end{frame}

\section{A Section}
\begin{frame}
  % ...
\end{frame}
\section{A Longer Section}
% ...
\subsection{A Subsection}
% ...
%!hidebegin
\begin{frame}
  a dummy frame so the table of contents renders properly
\end{frame}
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}

> In addition to the \csi{emph} command, \cli{beamer} provides additional means
> of emphasis within the slide: the \csi{alert} command typesets its argument
> using a bright red colour, while the \ei{block} environment displays its
> contents with a title and separated from the rest of the text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\cli{beamer} provides special comands
for emphasizing information on the slide: the \csi{alert} command typesets its argument
using a bright red colour, the \ei{block} environment displays its
contents with a title and separated from the rest of the text.
```

\begin{example}
\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame} %!hide
Here we will talk about
\alert{emphasis}. It is a
\emph{very} interesting topic.
\begin{block}{Font Shape}
  \emph{Italic type} is often
  used.
\end{block}
\begin{block}{Colour}
  A distinct \alert{colour}
  also works.
\end{block}
\end{frame} %!hide
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}

> Many \pai{amsmath}\footnote{\pai{amsmath} is loaded automatically by
>   \cli{beamer}.} environments, such as \ei{theorem} or \ei{proof} are redefined
> to also produce blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beamer redefines many \pai{amsmath}\footnote{\pai{amsmath} is loaded automatically by
  \cli{beamer}.} environments, such as \ei{theorem} or \ei{proof} to also produce blocks.
```

\begin{chktexignore}
\begin{example}[
  vertical_mode,
  to_page=3,
  paperheight=2.8cm,
  paperwidth=3.7cm,
  examplewidth=.95\linewidth,
]
\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame}
  \onslide<1> One. \onslide<2> Two. \onslide<1,3> One and
  three. \onslide<2-> Two onwards. \onslide<1-2> One to two.
\end{frame}
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}
\end{chktexignore}
The \csi{pause} command uses \csi{onslide} internally together with a counter,
so these can be mixed together as desired, though care is required to properly
set the slide numbers correctly.

A similar command is \csi{uncover}. It accepts the same optional \carg{overlay
  specification} argument but only applies it to its mandatory argument.
\begin{chktexignore}
\begin{example}[
  vertical_mode,
  to_page=3,
  paperheight=2.8cm,
  paperwidth=3.7cm,
  examplewidth=.95\linewidth,
]
\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame}
  \uncover<1>{One.} \uncover<2>{Two.} \uncover<1,3>{One
    and three.} All.
\end{frame}
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}
\end{chktexignore}
There are more commands that accept \carg{overlay specification} argument, and
many more preexisting commands and environments that are extended by

> \pai{beamer} to support them. Refer to its User Guide for more examples.

Reviewer: citation?

By default the contents that are not uncovered are not shown at all. If you
don't want to have a lot of empty space on your slides or you prefer not to
surprise your audience, you may adjust this behaviour to typeset the covered
text as transparent. To do so, use the \csi{setbeamercovered} with the
\cargv{transparent} option.
\begin{example}[
  vertical_mode,
  to_page=3,
  paperheight=2.8cm,
  paperwidth=3.7cm,
  examplewidth=.95\linewidth,
]
\setbeamercovered{transparent}
% ...

\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame}
  This will be shown first. \pause Then this. \pause
  And finally this.
\end{frame}
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}

> There are other possible arguments to this commands. For example, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are other possible arguments to these commands. For example, the
```

are \csi{usetheme} and \csi{usecolortheme}. These allow you to choose from a
predefined set of themes that alter the style and colours of the presentation.

\begin{example}
\usetheme{Madrid}
\usecolortheme{wolverine}
\author{Jane Doe}
\title{Title}
\date{Yesterday}
% ...

\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame}{Title}
  Normal text.
  \alert{Alerted text}.
  \begin{block}{Block}
    A block.
  \end{block}
\end{frame}
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}
The full list of available themes can be viewed
at~\cite{AnotherBeamerThemeMatrix}.

The \csi{usefonttheme} command can be used in a similar fashion. By default the
text in frames is typeset using sans serif font. This choice makes sense,
because it is easier to read on lower resolution projectors, but is less
relevant if you use high-resolution display to present it. You can pass
\cargv{serif} option to switch to default \LaTeX{} font.
\begin{example}
\usefonttheme{serif}
% ...

\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame}{Is serif better?}
  Often repeated assertion is
  that serif fonts are easier
  to read on paper, however, 
  this is not scientifically
  confirmed.
\end{frame}
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}

> More granular customisation is also possible using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More granular customisation is also possible using the
```

\begin{lscommand}
  \csi{setbeamerfont}[element: m, attributes: m] \\
  \csi{setbeamercolor}[element: m, attributes: m]
\end{lscommand}

> commands. The \carg{element} argument is the element for which the customised
> font or colour should apply, while the \carg{attributes} specify the attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commands. The \carg{element} argument is the element to which the customised
font or colour should be applied, while the \carg{attributes} specify the attributes
```

\begin{example}
\setbeamercolor{frametitle}{
  fg=red,
  bg=lime,
}
\setbeamerfont{block title}{
  series=\bfseries,
  family=\ttfamily,
}
% ...

\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame}{Frame Title}
  Normal text.
  \begin{block}{Block title}
    More text.
  \end{block}
\end{frame}
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}

The default math font of \LaTeX{} is meant to typeset it in serif fonts. While
\pai{beamer} tries to adapt it by using the sans serif variables, not all
symbols exist in sans serif version (for example, Greek letters), which looks
silly at times. It is best to switch to a sans serif math font and matching
text font if your presentation is math heavy. Switching math fonts is described
further in \autoref{sec:math_fonts}.
\begin{example}
\usepackage{unicode-math}
\setsansfont{Fira Sans}
\setmathfont{Fira Math}
\setoperatorfont{\mathsf}
% ...

\begin{document} %!hide
\begin{frame} %!hide
With these fonts Greek
variables don't look silly
next to the Latin ones.
\[ x + b = \chi + \beta \]
\[ \lim_{x \to 0}
   \frac{\sin(x)}{x} = 1 \]
\end{frame} %!hide
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}

By default, \pai{beamer} typesets the slides onto \(4 : 3\) pages. If your

> projector supports that, you may prefer to change aspect ratio to a wider one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
projector supports it, you may prefer to change the aspect ratio accordingly.
```

You may do so by passing the \cargv{aspectratio} to the \cs{documentclass}
options. It accepts a single integer that encodes the desired ratio, for
example \cargv{169} is interpreted as \(16:9\), while \cargv{54} is interpreted
as \(5:4\). Wider ratios are especially useful if you want to include a sidebar

> with table of contents on your slides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the table of contents into your slides.
```

these are still supported, this booklet will focus on the \pai*{beamer} package
which is the most popular option these days. This section will only scratch the
surface of \pai{beamer}'s capabilities. For a more in-depth tutorial please see
the User Guide~\cite{pack:beamer} distributed with it.

\subsection{Basic Usage}

The \pai{beamer} package provides the \cli{beamer} class, which loads all the
necessary packages. The most basic environment is the \ei{frame} environment
which adds a single page to your presentation.\footnote{Other presentation
  software often uses the them \enquote{slide} instead of frame, but slides are
  a slightly different concept in \pai{beamer}.}
\begin{example}
%!showbegin !hide
\documentclass{beamer}
%!showend !hide

\begin{document}
\begin{frame}
  Small is beautiful.
\end{frame}
\end{document}
\end{example}
The full syntax of the \ei{frame} is actually
\begin{lscommand}
  \ei*{frame}[options: o, title: m, subtitle: m]
\end{lscommand}
Where \carg{options} is a key value list of options applied to the frame while
\carg{title} and \carg{subtitle} are displayed at the top of the slide. Despite

> the curly braces these are actually optional arguments and have been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the curly brackets these are actually optional arguments and have been
```

```
{} are braces or curly brackets ... 
() are parentheses or round brackets
[] are brackets or square brackets
<> are chevrons or angle brackets
```

\begin{frame} %!hide
With these fonts Greek
variables don't look silly
next to the Latin ones.
\[ x + b = \chi + \beta \]
\[ \lim_{x \to 0}
   \frac{\sin(x)}{x} = 1 \]
\end{frame} %!hide
\end{document} %!hide
\end{example}

By default, \pai{beamer} typesets the slides onto \(4 : 3\) pages. If your
projector uses other aspect ratio, you may prefer to change it accordingly. You
may do so by passing the \cargv{aspectratio} to the \cs{documentclass} options.
It accepts a single integer that encodes the desired ratio, for example
\cargv{169} is interpreted as \(16:9\), while \cargv{54} is interpreted as
\(5:4\). Wider ratios are especially useful if you want to include a sidebar
with the table of contents into your slides.
\begin{example}[paperwidth=8cm]
%!showbegin !hide
\documentclass[
  aspectratio=169
]{beamer}
%!showend !hide

\begin{document}
\begin{frame}
  Wide is beautiful.
\end{frame}
\end{document}
\end{example}

\subsection{Handouts}

One of the killer features of \pai{beamer} compared to other presentation
software is the ability to easily create handouts directly from your source
files. The simplest way to do so is to add the option \cargv{handout} to the

> \cs{documentclass} command. Doing so will make the \pai{beamer} ignore all of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\cs{documentclass} command. Doing so will make the \pai{beamer} class ignore all of
```

> the \csi{pause}s and similar commands to produce document with fewer pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the \csi{pause}s and similar commands to produce documents with fewer pages.
```
